What type of song sticks in your head?
For some it's a happy song
Yet for others it's a sad song
One that expresses the emotional pain we feel
Now consider the experience of a missionary sister and
She is serving faithfully in her assignment. She's doing a wonderful work
You know at the same time
She appeared happy on the outside
joyful but inside in her heart a sad song was playing and it kept playing and playing
reinforcing the idea as she said
And I'm a failure and
As she said it's causing me to doubt that I have Jehovah's approval
To doubt you have Jehovah's approval. That's serious. So
This is what she was going through and then she said I read one scripture
That completely shifted my perspective
And she shared that scripture with me and
Now I want to share that scripture with you and I want you to take this and put it in your pocket
Carry it in your pocket a good shirt pocket scripture as you now begin your post graduation journey
This scripture
Zephaniah chapter three. Let's open our Bibles there Zephaniah chapter three
Let's read verse 17 and see how this scripture helped her and how it will help you. Let's read it
Jehovah God is in your midst as a mighty one. He will save
He will exalt over you with great joy
He will become silent in his love
He will rejoice over you with shouts of joy
Embedded within embedded within this one scripture is the secret
The secret to keeping your joy bright in the days of pet
So let's take a closer look at this text in this one verse. We're going to note three powerful ways in which Jehovah expresses his love and
His approval of you. So pay close attention
first
He says
Jehovah will exalt over you with great joy
Exalt over you with great joy exalt over what?
over your zeal
Over your unbreakable devotion
He celebrates your faithful record. That's Jehovah. He's celebrating what you are doing for him. He's speaking
Then the next point it says that he becomes silent in his love
Jehovah is at ease. He's deeply satisfied. He's pleased with your obedience. He loves it
Much like a parent who reflects on their child and the good things that they are doing and becomes very proud of that child
Just reflecting big smile comes over the parent's face. That's the way Jehovah is
silent in his love how beautiful
But Jehovah does not remain silent
That silence now is it's so profound the love that he has for you is so profound your obedience looks what look what happens next now
This is the main point of the talk
So which the third expression the third sentence in this verse. I want you to see it look at it again
It's the last sentence of the verse because this is the one we want to zero in on
So don't miss it. He will rejoice over you with shouts of joy
Based on the Hebrew word the phrase can be rendered he will rejoice over you with singing
It's the only instance that the in the scriptures where Jehovah is referred to as singing
The sentence describes Jehovah as spinning around with shouts of joy
The powerful imagery of singing helps us understand how profound Jehovah's love is
These are your heavenly father's strong emotions toward you his thoughts toward you
They're deep they're profound. This is Jehovah's thoughts toward you
How do you listen to Jehovah's song?
You meditate you think you focus on what Jehovah is singing to you what Jehovah is singing so be careful
Don't dilute his approval with self-doubt
With insecurity
What others might think of you what others might save you don't do that. That's just watering down. What Jehovah is saying
Block out the negative noise
Now I want to give you an example
When you followed the direction of the organization
Even when it was difficult
Did you listen to the voice inside of you?
Because you struggle to obey I'm bad. I'm struggling to obey. No, that's your voice
Or did you hear Jehovah singing at
Deuteronomy chapter 28 and verse two?
All my blessings will come upon you and
Overtake you because you keep listening to my voice whose voice do you listen to you listen to Jehovah's
When you remain loyal under trial
Jehovah was singing at
Psalm 43 because you were loyal to me
Know that I will treat you in a special way
Did you listen to him?
When you shall loyalty Jehovah promises a very specific response
Make the connection
He is so proud of your faith. When is he he bursts into song?
That's what we're describing here
How wonderful this relationship you have with Jehovah is
however
The theme of this talk is not the soloist
Because Jehovah now requires you to do something
wants you to do something
Now let's look at verse 14 chapter three Zephaniah chapter three verse 14 now
What is Jehovah wanting
Shout joyfully
shout in triumph
Be joyful and rejoice with all your heart
Oh now Jehovah's calling on you to join in
Shout joyfully rejoice with all your heart. He is inviting you to sing a duet
Now how do you sing with Jehovah
By acknowledging your record of loyalty your personal record of loyalty
acknowledge it
Only you and Jehovah know each word of the duet each note eat in each inflection of the song
He wants you to sing it with him for example
When you read a second Samuel chapter 22 and verse 26
With someone loyal
Jehovah you will act in loyalty. That's what Jehovah says in his word with someone loyal
Who is that someone that's you?
Well, what does Jehovah say he will act in loyalty? He will act. He's not passive. It's a verb. It's strong
He will act
so recall
How he acted in loyalty with you when you were loyal under trial
How did you feel when he drew closer to you? He did?
Did you recognize it? He drew closer to you. He acted
He gave you this Holy Spirit
so that you could
Accomplish his will and overcome the temptation or trial
Did you acknowledge it? He drew closer? You felt his Holy Spirit. He connected in a stronger way
It was tangible. It was real. It's concrete. It's not made up. That's who Jehovah is
Now remember
When Jehovah sees you trying to please him
He reacts not simply with mild satisfaction. Oh, good boy. Oh
Good girl try again. We're not talking about that. He reacts with rejoicing
Don't dismiss it as if it was of no account
Instead sing with Jehovah by thanking him
When under pressure you were able to overcome a difficult situation with Jehovah's help
Don't ignore that
acknowledge his hand and power in your life shout out with him by God's power. I can scale a wall
Now you're you're working with Jehovah blend your voice with Jehovah's
And don't let your imperfect thoughts or the thoughts of others or your own deepest feelings and insecurities about yourself
Cause you to drown out Jehovah's voice
Don't do that
Let Jehovah's thoughts take the lead in your song
And never doubt his feelings toward you
See Jehovah's thoughts are so powerful
They have the power to sustain and motivate
Help you not to give up on the face of personal disappointments or knowing anxiety
Now this is what our sister wrote in a world of expectation
Disapproval and judgment
Jehovah freely expresses his feelings of joy for me
This scripture has transported me from the mud of trials that drag you down
Into a bubble of safety security and happiness that no one could ever take away from me
Clearly Jehovah was singing to her and when she joined him in this duet
The song lifted her up
Transported her above the difficulties into a bubble of safety security and happiness
No longer was she at the breaking point
No longer did she feel like a failure
She had found the secret to keeping her in a joy
And what was that
Focusing on the reality of Jehovah's thoughts toward her
That's what we want you to do. That's why we're giving you this final piece of encouragement
Now it's been said that words
Are a powerful drug
Because they can change the way a person thinks and feels
However
Music has the power to alter our emotions
So when woven together a song
A song can become the most powerful healing agent known to man
When you join your voice with Jehovah in this duet
It can transport you to a protected place the secret place of the most high and in this secret place where true joy resides
No one can harm you here
The personal sweet melody we want to encourage you keep singing keep singing the duet
This is the song you want stuck in your head for the rest of your life
And do not let the noise from within or from without overwrite your song
Let Jehovah's feelings for you set the tone
And if you struggle to overcome negative thoughts take control change the tune
How
Can I change the tune by joining in the song
The sovereign lord of the universe has composed for you in his word Jehovah God the sovereign lord of the universe has composed the song for you in his word
How he has given you a list of scriptures that resonate in your heart
That remind you of how he feels about you you have the list in fact. We'll call this your playlist
You put that playlist in your pocket
And if you do in spite of life's challenges
You will be able to keep your inner joy why
Because all of you have learned to sing a most beautiful duet